Here's an overview of the subjects we'll cover in this course.
After this introduction module,
you'll start with how to read and write XML using the JAXB API.
We'll start with a simple data model and examples so that you
can get familiar with how the API works.
There will be lots of examples throughout the course,
and you can download the source code for all the
examples on the course page at Pluralsight.
I recommend that you follow along with the code and play with it yourself
because working with the code hands-on is a great way to learn.
JAXB works with annotations.
After you've learned the basics of how to read and write XML,
we'll take a closer look at the available annotations and how you can use them
to control the mapping between your Java classes and XML.
Then we'll take a look at the two approaches to working with JAXB,
the code-first and the schema-first approach.
We'll first take a look at the code-first approach where
you use the schemagen tool from the JDK to generate an XML
schema from your Java classes.
And then we'll look at the schema-first approach where you use
the xjc tool from the JDK to do the opposite,
generate Java source files from an XML schema.
With both these approaches,
we'll take a close look at the Java code and the XML schema so that
you understand clearly how JAXB maps between Java classes and
fields and XML elements and attributes.
After that, we'll take a look at more advanced usage of JAXB.
You can customize what JAXB does in a number of different ways.
We'll take a look at an example,
which will be practically useful for your own applications
and that is how to map XML date and time types to the
standard Java 8 date and time classes.
When you're working on a real Java project,
you'll most likely be using one of the standard build tools,
Maven or Gradle.
When you use JAXB in your project,
you'll at some point need to call the JDK tools to generate
an XML schema or to generate Java code.
There are plugins available for Maven and Gradle to call these tools.
We'll take a look at how to use the plugins so that you can
integrate JAXB into your build process.
Finally, you'll learn about how JAXB is used with JAX-WS,
which is the standard API for working with XML-based web services.
We will not dive really deep into XML-based web services because that's a big
topic that could easily fill a complete course by itself.
But since this is one of the areas in which JAXB is used in many applications,
I want to at least show you the basics of how JAXB is
used with web services in practice.
At the end of this course, you'll understand exactly how to use JAXB,
and you'll also have practically useful know about how to integrate it into your
build process and how it is used in XML-based web services. You'll be ready to use JAXB in your own projects.